>> Estelle Weyl: The next one
is a background image property.
Originally, the background image is used
to declare an image on your background,
it can be one or more images.
Originally, we were just given one image,
and we had a few properties,
including the background image, and
then background-repeat, attachment,
position and color.
>> Estelle Weyl: That's why I
always suggest to people to not use
the background shorthand.
Because when you use a shorthand
property you're actually overwriting
the background color,
the background position, the background
attachment and the background repeat.
And I like to put my global reset,
background repeat, no repeat,
cuz I very rarely wanna
repeat a background image.
>> Estelle Weyl: So you could use as
a value for background image either non or
the URI of an image or inherit and
then we'll inherit the image from its
parent and I don't think anyone would
ever wanna do that intentionally.
>> Estelle Weyl: A few tips for
background images.
If you're going to use a background image,
ensure there's enough contrast
between the text and your image.
So we were talking about color contrast
ratio a little bit yesterday for
people with low visibility or low vision
rather, you want a significant contrast.
And then when you have a background image,
unless there's transparency in that image,
you usually want a background color.
Because if the image
doesn't come through and
let's say you have a really dark image so
you have white text.
And then you have a white background
cuz you didn't put a background color.
Or you're gonna have white text on a white
background, and that's not gonna be good.
Background images do not print by default,
and
there's no way to improve
accessibility on background images.
There's no way to say, background
images should be purely decorative
because there's no way to provide
alt text to describe to the user.
What the images,
what to describe to your most
significant blind user which is Google.
So the multiple background image syntax
is basically declaring one image,
comma separated and the next image.
And if you noticed here is its
background image green and then blue and
if you're not color blind you see
that the blue one is in the back.
So it basically gets
painted back to front, so
the last one gets painted first and then
the first one gets painted on top of it.
>> Estelle Weyl: They are comma
separated in the cross-fade function.
>> Estelle Weyl: So cross-fading is the
ability to basically cross-fade between
two images.
And it is supported in some browsers and
not in others.
So ones where it's not supported
then one that you declare,
the image that declare
first will be on top.
>> Estelle Weyl: Then image-set is
the ability to declare a set of images.
And let's go again to can I use and
do image-set.
>> Estelle Weyl: Again,
it works only with the webkit prefix.
So this is something that you can't quite
use quite yet but I did wanna point
it out, because it will eventually
come in, and it is part of the spec.
So the type of images we can
currently use is the key term none,
which is very useful when you're
overwriting an image that
you already declared and
you don't want it on this element.
You can use the URL, and so you put URL,
and then in parentheses you
can put a single image.
Or you can put the URL in parentheses with
a single image, and then the comma, and
then the next one.
You can also use data URIs.
So in this first example I have a GIF and
it's base64 and
the data URI is right there.
And that reduces the number
of HTTP requests.
We don't wanna do that if it's a tiny,
little image because this is not the most
compact width pulling in images.
So you won't wanna do a huge JPG or
PNG with that.
And then the second one is an SVG image.
So you can actually just put
the code right there and
not have an HTTP request if
you're gonna have an SVG.
And SVGs, it depends on what
you're creating with your SVG.
Generally, my SVGs are tiny because
I am not a graphic designer, and
I'm basically just making shapes.
So it depends on the complexity, but
that might be a useful way of reducing
an HTTP request and improving performance.
Then we also have linear and
radial gradients.
We also have linear repeating gradients
and repeating radial gradients,
and we also have conical gradients.
We'll go over the linear, radial and
the repeating ones but
not the conical ones later on today.
In the future if you look up
at the spec it says, image and
then parenthesis elementand
then parenthesis, image set and
then parenthesis and
cross-fade and then parenthesis.
That's why I showed you the can I use,
because there's these four other
features in a specification.
And right now, it kind have only works in
Firefox cuz it's been working there for
a long time, the image and the element.
So in Firefox,
you can actually say element and
you use to be able to do this,
I think they might have deprecated it.
But you can actually put
a canvas on the page, or
design a canvas in the background,
give it an ID,
and then put it as the background
of image, of an element rather.
And then with the image,
you can do a few things.
The first one is basically picking up
a Sprite and then putting in hash and
then saying xy and then width and
heights in the starting point and
then the width and
height of the area you wanna show and
basically clip your background image.
This is not fully supported,
it was supported in Firefox long time ago.
I don't know if it's even
still supported there.
And then the second one is image and then
it's basically, try finding this image.
If that doesn't work,
try finding the next image.
try finding the third.
Which will be really nice if we could
have cuz then we could do a WebP and
a JPG XR, and then just a regular JPG,
and see whichever one is supported in
that browser,
they could use that for backgrounds.
Cuz we do have the picture element,
and we do have media queries, but
it would be nice to just be able to
declare a background image in one way.